---
layout: post
title: "Why I Took Gap Years"
categories: life
author: "Yizheng Huang"
---

After talking with Prof. Wei-Ping and Minh Chau several times, I chose to take a two-year gaping plan finally before I graduate. I have to say, this is a really tough decision since I need to bear much more than others. Especially in China mainland, a place where people always think that it will be much simpler when you progress to a next phase successfully.

CEO of Qathena (along with CTO in Atollogy.com) Minh has an opinion that in the US, there are two kinds of 'the best' students. One devoted into what they love early and finally created something that made differences, most of them only have bachelor's degree or worse. He called them, younger 'smart creative'. Another kind of people are belonging to the academy, they need to have a Ph.D degree and have made the decision spending half their lives into research work. Master's degree is sandwiched in the middle, because it always just a transition period, that aims to help you get a better job. However, not so valuable.

I used to be a disciple of Minh's view. But Prof. Wei-Ping was a counterexample, after graduating from Massachusetts Institute of Technology with the Ph.D degree, he became a professor in the University of Waterloo, Canada first. As the original path, he may stay in his tvory tower and continue his research, but destiny gave him a chance to know how the capital works in Sloan School of Management. That made he become one of the best entrepreneurs in China, who create the Hisense, the largest chinese TV producer 10 years ago. The truth is, creating something amazing has no matter with your degree background. Exactly speacking, taking degrees is the approach, not the destination.

The world is simpler than your thought.

I'm wondering why people in China always thinking about themselves, students spend all the intelligence getting higher exam scores, try their best to help themselves getting honors and new chances. Those things are all about themselves, create nothing for others. In short, these processes create no value. From this concept, our society is very deformed since people are shortsighted, they all staring at the 'smartest' way to help themselves but actually the quickest way to achieve personal value is to simply create value. I'm not saying this kind like taking better scores and getting more honors is not good, but we should not forget why we need to do this, they are always ways to the final. 

This is the true reason why I want to take the Gap Year. And if possible, I want to take longer like two or three years, that can help me to know myself entirely again. It's a pity that during the college time, I spent too much time maintaining my GPA, and my honors but to know which roads that fits me the best. I'm tired and rounded the road actually. In the gap year, I don't need to worry about the examinations, and other factors kill my time. And that gives me a chance to find the direction and try more options, I know this has a lot of time cost, but if I never stop forwarding, who can say it's a waste of time? 

But people are always lazy, me too. So I need something can push myself move forward (not the scores, but something more natural), I need to implement the economic independence during this time; I need to prepare myself for getting a desired degree if necessary; But the most important thing, to learn more about myself, the world, and devoting into what I love. I believe this period can make a person become irreplaceable, so do I.

I don't want to take a gap year at first, but after talking to who gave me impacts of thought. I believe doing such an experiment is the right decision. I think living in such an era of the times, there are absolutely no stable jobs, only stable competitiveness, the real stability is not to have meals in one place, but to eat anywhere. 









