---
layout: post
title: "Understanding mutual funds."
description: "A complete begineer trying to undersand mutual funds."
categories:  [finance]
tags: []
typora-root-url: ../../../../website
---

Throughout my life, I have not paid much attention to personal finance. I'm a scientist by heart and profession, and I used to be really focused on my science work. I thought that finance would take care of itself. Boy, was I wrong.

I believe this is because our intuition is built around linear thinking. We put in x amount of effort and get returns in direct proportion to it. The concept of exponential growth and its effects can be challenging for human beings to fully comprehend, especially over long periods of time. Even really smart people like Albert Einstein found this kind of growth amazing and called it the "eighth wonder of the world." 

Recently a good friend encouraged me to explore mutual funds with a focus on how they can lead to exponential growth. This got me really interested in the topic.

## What do you want to do with your money?
The obvious answer is that you would like it to grow. Suppose you have ₹5000 in your account. You would feel happy if it grows to, let's say, ₹10,000 in a few years. To understand how that can happen, you need to grasp a few simple investment concepts. For the sake of simplicity, I am leaving out inflation in this post.

I will start with a few terms from banking, as that is what I have seen in my house, and I believe most Indian families do the same; they keep most of their money in saving accounts of fixed deposits.

- **Principal Amount**: The principal amount refers to the initial sum of money we have to invest, in this case, ₹5000.
- **Interest**: In investment, interest refers to the earnings or returns generated on the principal amount. It represents the additional value gained from the investment over time. In this case, we want ₹5000.
- **Compounding:** The power of compounding involves earning returns not only on your initial investment but also on the accumulated interest or gains. Over time, this can lead to exponential growth.





## What exactly is a mutual fund?

Mutual funds are investments where many people pool their money to buy a mix of stocks, bonds, or other assets. Over time, the value of these investments can grow, and when you reinvest any earnings (like dividends or interest), your money can start to grow faster and faster.

> Mutual funds are designed for long-term growth and investing. They aim to generate higher returns by investing in a diversified portfolio of stocks, bonds, or other securities.


## References
1. [Mutual Fund Taxation – How Mutual Funds Are Taxed?](https://cleartax.in/s/different-mutual-funds-taxed)
